so then someone's asking how do we get
over that pain it's the wrong kind of
thinking that's that's the thought that
gets keeps you stuck you don't get over
the pain how can i do a dopamine detox
while having depression and porn
addiction
well that's the only time you can do
dopamine detox
um
what i would think is actually a harder
question to answer is how can i do a
dopamine detox when i'm meditating on at
a monastery on top of a mountain for 30
days like that's harder
so when thinking about what i do on a
daily basis i wake up watch porn go to
my computer play video games watch
youtube go to go to my bed scroll
through social media go back to my
computer play video games watch youtube
go to back to my bed watch porn and so
on
right
a a truly glorious life when i try to do
anything other than these highly
dopaminergic activities like meditation
yoga exercise socializing cooking
reading hiking all the healthy stuff
all i can think about is is this over
yet can i go back to my computer yet
because i find almost zero enjoyment in
these other activities it feels like i
have no competing interests that rival
youtube video games or porn i have zero
interest or desire in doing anything
besides these three things when i
attempt doing a dopamine detox i can't
last for more than a day
my life has been like this for years i
used to enjoy making art and i still
want to be an artist but i just don't
really enjoy making art anymore and i
find it boring and pretty much pointless
these last few years
i'm currently attending college right
now mainly to avoid having a job and it
feels like i'm only capable of doing the
absolute bare minimum it feels like i'm
trapped in these dopaminergic activities
and my brain won't let me do anything
else any advice
so
this is unfortunately a common problem
where people are stuck in a dopaminergic
cycle
of youtube pornography video games
social media sleep
sometimes addictions are thrown thrown
in marijuana use alcohol what have you
vaping you know
so a lot of people are in this situation
and so they're like i don't know how to
stop this
anytime i try to do this the healthy
stuff it's boring
all my mind thinks is i can't stop when
when is this going to be over when is
this going to be over when is this going
to be over when can i get back to the
dopaminergic stuff that kills my soul
but satisfies my brain
it's a big problem so this is what the
nyana yog approach will be okay so we're
going to take a different tac a
different approach to this question
so
what nyani yogi would say is like what
are you expecting
when you cook or you read or you go for
a hike or you socialize like what are
you looking for
what do you think that's going to feel
like
are you doing these activities expecting
it to do anything except for suck
because that's what's going to happen if
your brain is addicted to dopamine all
these activities are going to suck
they're gonna be awful
it's gonna be terrible
like that people will say like oh i
tried doing this stuff but it's not as
fun as youtube or
video gaming yeah it's never going to be
that's why youtube and video games are
like
you know pornography
are taking over the world
because they are by definition more
dopaminergic and more behaviorally
reinforcing than cooking
it's not like no one's like i'm addicted
to cooking
i'm addicted to hiking dr k help me i'm
addicted to hiking i just can't stop
every time i go for a hike
i rest for a little while and it's like
i gotta i gotta go out and buy celery
and make myself a salad oh my god i
can't stop
no one gets addicted to that stuff
right because it's not addictive so
first question is like what are you
expecting
like are you expecting this stuff to be
fun are you expecting it to like
give you instant gratification like
youtube or pornography like you think
talking to another human being is going
to feel anything like
pornography feels
and so the first thing you've got to
really ask yourself is what are you
expecting out of doing these activities
are you waiting because this is what i
oftentimes see is that people are like
waiting
to get the dopamine hit from the reading
they're like how many days do i need to
read
before i get the same dopamine hit that
i get from playing a video game
and then yana yogi would say you're
never gonna get the same dopamine head
so then the question then you're like
okay well if i'm never gonna get the
same dopamine hit like then what what do
i do and that's where nyanio comes in
again
and so then then the question is like
what do you want your life to be
right so if you want your life to be a
cycle of youtube video games and
pornography then by all means do what
you're doing
if you want your life to be something
else like having a fulfilling
relationship not being filled with shame
being able to go to sleep being proud of
the way that you look
if you want some of those things then
this is not going to be the pathway to
do it
and then you're going to say well like
those things are hard and it's like yeah
like that's the price
right so then at some point
you have to internally decide
what's more important to you
do you want to
have your mind be not bored on a daily
basis
is that the most important thing to you
then by all means continue living the
life you're living
or are you willing to tolerate
some boredom or a lot of boredom for the
sake of some of these other things and
really ask yourself the question don't
just default to yeah of course so that's
what i want to do it's what i should do
i think
it's what everyone else does if your
mind is producing answers like that you
don't actually want it it's just you
think it's better
right but that's not actually what you
want to and this is where dionyo comes
in so you really have to look at
yourself and ask yourself genuinely what
is more important to me
if i had a choice between having no
dopamine and being bored out of my mind
but i had made art at the end of the
year versus a year of like losing myself
in video gaming pornography and youtube
which one would i pick
and then if you say to yourself i would
pick the art and so okay interesting so
that means that you
have to be bored for a year so let's
start today and then what does your mind
say well i don't like this okay so like
that's the choice that you have do you
want to make choices that your mind
likes
or do you want to make choices that your
mind dislikes
this is the path of nyan yog
this is something that we work a lot on
in coaching you guys saw the you know we
even someone was asking about coaching
resources earlier
so we streamed one of our coach
trainings and one of our our important
coach trainings is about goal-setting
and motivation
to help people navigate this internal
struggle
because when people lack motivation like
you really have to look at yourself and
realize that you don't lack motivation
it's just pointed in the wrong direction
you're very motivated this person is
highly highly motivated
they're very motivated to watch
pornography play video games and and you
know watch youtube
to the exclusion of all these other
dimensions in their life when your life
is going to hell in all of these
different ways that's not a sign of a
lack of motivation it's a sign of very
very high motivation because you're
sacrificing so much
you're ruining every other dimension of
your life so like you have to be highly
highly like just think about how
motivated you have to be to like ruin
things that are important to you you
have to be really motivated
is it not healthy sure it's not healthy
no one's saying it's healthy but let's
be honest with ourselves about where our
motivation is actually pointed
this is the first problem that people
don't understand is they think i'm not
motivated misdiagnosis just think about
how successful you're going to be if you
diagnose yourself as a lack of
motivation when in fact what you have is
too much motivation how successful do
you think you're going to get at getting
out of that problem
it's like like the opposite diagnosis
right it's the exact opposite it's like
like if you're hungry
if you if you don't realize you're
hungry and you think you're full all the
time and you're wondering like what's
going on i'm full i'm full i'm full and
you're actually always hungry like
you're never gonna fix that problem
you're like i need to eat less i need to
eat less i need to eat less when
actually you're hungry the whole time
so everyone's like trying to figure out
how do i find motivation you don't need
to find motivation you need to get rid
of motivation
that's why everyone's so damn stuck all
the time
because you're so motivated for youtube
video games and pornography and then you
say but that's not what i want to be
motivated in there's the second problem
you run into
because if that were true you wouldn't
be doing it
you should the thing you should realize
is i'm highly motivated to do it
so it's like colossal misdiagnoses
lead to people being stuck
because you're solving a problem that
doesn't exist
instead of solving the one that does
and so this is what we try to you know
train our coaches to help people figure
out
is that it's not that there's like so we
have this drive matrix and things like
that where you explore with people like
okay what actually motivates you what
are the shoulds in your life and what
are the things that you actually want
what are you driven towards and what do
you think you should be doing let's
understand that those are two entirely
different things where does that come
from how do we work through that how do
we move things from the should column to
the things that you know i value or i
care about so there's a lot of reframing
and things like that that have to happen
but start off by recognizing like you
know what are you expecting from
not playing video games pornography
and youtube like what are you expecting
what do you think your life is going to
be like
the truth is it's going to suck
in a lot of different ways and there
will be a different kind of enjoyment so
i'll just explain this very quickly then
we're going to wrap up for the day
so when you have a dopaminergic life
it feels really good in your mind
and it's like
a desert for your soul you're gonna feel
like in the in the in between spaces
you're gonna feel like existential dread
feel like your life is moving in the
wrong direction feel ashamed of yourself
feel envious of others there's this
whole like pile of like negative
emotional demons that's like
hiding in the closet
and every once in a while like the door
of the closet will like open up and
they'll come rushing out
and then like it takes a lot of
pornography to like push them back in
right
because pornography is the antidote to
inner demons
and so
if you're in that situation like what
you're giving up the trade that you make
is the exact opposite
right it's like having fulfillment
and being proud of yourself
and all that kind of stuff like maybe
having a healthy relationship
but you're gonna give up like all the
benefits of the dopaminergic crap
so you're not gonna have fun you're
going to be bored at times it's going to
be hard you're going to feel negative
things you're going to feel good things
too
so you have to kind of choose between
like the brain and the soul
because if you want to choose the brain
then you're going to get constant
stimulation it'll be like sort of fun
but then you'll be raging at your
teammates
and feeling empty on the inside
and you can play video games as much as
you want to to feel fill up that
emptiness you can watch his pornography
as much as you want to to do away with
the feeling of loneliness and lack of
companionship
and you can you can you know watch
youtube as much as you want to to inform
yourself about things that are neat
instead of actually doing something in
the world
you can learn about what other people
are doing as much as you want to it's
never going to
fix the whole of not having done
anything yourself
the downside though is if you do things
yourself if you enter into a
relationship and you find fulfillment
it's like
your mind is gonna be in pain for parts
of that you're gonna have to make
sacrifice entering into a relationship
is not all just
you know get getting rid of your
loneliness it's like having to deal with
another human being's emotional needs
which can be incredibly exhausting
you know finding fulfillment in life and
being proud of what you do oftentimes
comes with blood sweat and tears
like the problem is like if you're in
this dopaminergic whatever like
the second that blood sweat or tears
starts to happen we just all fold we
cave
back
let me go back so the real question that
you should ask yourself this is the
essence of nyan yog is like what are you
expecting
and what do you want and what choice do
you want to make because the choice is
yours
you just need to make it and recognize
that the choice you have to stop picking
the good choice and start picking the
crappy choice you have to start picking
blood sweat and tears over
enjoyment relaxation
and hitting the fast forward button on
your life
so then someone's asking how do we get
over that pain it's the wrong kind of
thinking that's that's the thought that
gets keeps you stuck you don't get over
the pain
what you need to choose is the path to
not get over the pain
you need to accept the pain embrace the
pain it ain't going anywhere
this is the whole problem it's a
beautiful question how do i get over the
pain it's the exact question that that
causes failure over and over and over
again
because everyone's like when does this
end it doesn't end if you want to put
together your life it doesn't end
if you're waiting for the pain to stop
if you're waiting for like
a book to be as exciting as playing the
lost art beta
not gonna happen
maybe happened with harry potter book
four
it's the closest we're gonna get in our
lifetime
right so accept that you're not gonna
get over it and that's where you'll get
free from it
you